[instrumental music]
(Stephen)
Doctor's personal log.
Every day brings us
something new at Babylon 5.
Unfortunately, sometimes
it also brings along
a new strain of bacteria
or a new virus.
My job now is to catalog
all those possible infections
for the new alliance
and compile a complete
medical profile
on all the member races.
It's gonna be a big job,
but I'm looking forward to it.
Alright, now breathe in slowly.
That's it.
Nurse?
Interesting.
You know, one of the reasons
why I wanted to see you
is that even though
your people are carrion-eaters
so that you're constantly being
exposed to, uh, alien bacteria
you seem almost impervious
to outside infection.
Pak'Ma'Ra are chosen of God.
Very special.
We can eat of all the creatures
who walk and fly and crawl.
But not of the fish in the sea.
So you can handle
mammals of all kind
even reptiles, but no fish.
Interesting.
Your system may be set up
to destroy harmful bacteria
on a selective basis.
'I'd like to do an analysis of
your upper intestinal system.'
'This..'
...is a barium compound.
It's perfectly harmless.
It'll help me track
how your system
handles outside material.
Not on approved list.
Well, everything you eat doesn't
have to be dead for five days.
Alright, this is
a non-organic compound
and it does not fall
in the same category.
So don't worry, now.
You'll be fine.
We do this all the time. Here.
Can you help him here, please?
[instrumental music]
So far everyone has been
extremely cooperative.
Even the Pak'Ma'Ra.
It goes a long way toward
restoring my faith
in Babylon 5's mission.
Alright, you ready?
[belching]
That's why we're all here.
To better understand
one another
and treat each other
with sympathy and compassion.
Commodities which are all
too often in short supply.
Okay, what's the problem?
Travel violation.
They don't have any money,
any transit papers.
Half of them don't even
have any current ID.
We are with-with-with Byron.
We were told we could
c-c-c-come here.
More telepaths. Great.
This is not the right...p-place?
This is where
we are-we are gathering.
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's the right place.
But this is getting out of hand.
How many more of you
people are coming here?
(Byron)
'How many angels can dance
on the head of a pin?'
That question baffled religious
thinkers for centuries.
Until someone finally
hit upon the answer.
How many angels can dance
on the head of a pin?
As many as want to.
How many of my brother
and sister telepaths are coming?
As many as want to.
Yeah, well, captain--
Is under orders
from President Sheridan
to allow us in.
As with all the rest
who have already arrived
we will provide you with all
the paperwork you require
for our friends here.
You have my word.
Alright. Go on.
Come on. Move! Go! Go!
[sighs]
Lyta..
...can I talk to you
for a minute, please?
Those guys are gonna be trouble
yet. You just watch and see.
There's more going on here
than they're telling us.
[instrumental music]
It's good to see you
again, Peter.
And you, B-Byron.
I've been p-p-practicing
a great deal since
I s-saw you last.
I'm much better now.
S-stronger.
Would-would you like to see?
Of course, Peter. Show me.
[music continues]
[laughing]
That was very good, Peter.
Very, very good.
(Kosh)
And so it begins.
There's a hole in your mind.
What do you want?
(G'Kar)
No one here is
exactly what he appears.
(Sinclair)
Nothing's the same anymore.
(Hague)
Commander Sinclair
is being reassigned.
Why don't you eliminate
the entire Narn homeworld?
I see a great hand
reaching out of the stars.
(Sebastian)
Who are you?
President Clark has signed
a decree today declaring..
(Sheridan)
These orders have forced us
to declare independence..
Unless your people get of their
encounter suited butts and do..
(Zathras)
You're the one who was.
(Kosh)
If you go to
Z'Ha'Dum, you will die.
(Lorien)
Why are you here?
Do you have anything
worth living for?
(Delenn)
I think of my beautiful
city in flames.
(Sheridan)
Giants in the playground.
Now, get the hell
out of our galaxy!
We are here to place
President Clark under arrest.
[theme music]
[music continues]
I know you're busy, but,
uh, this won't take long.
No, it's fine, Zack.
What can I do for you?
What the hell are you
doing with those people?
What? What people?
Byron, the others.
Those...people.
Those people
are telepaths, same as me.
Oh, no, not the same.
The way they hang
together like that, I just..
I don't like it.
And that Byron guy's
the worst of the bunch.
Byron is a sweet,
charming, sympathetic man
who's trying to create
a better world.
He's trouble and I don't think
you should be
seeing him anymore.
Who said I was seeing him?
Lyta, I'm head of security.
I don't miss much.
So you've been spying on me?
I didn't say that.
- You're jealous.
- No, I am not jealous.
No? Care to give me permission
to peek inside and find out?
- You don't understand.
- No, I understand, Zack.
I understand plenty.
You and the others
needed my help
during the Shadow war,
and I did that.
I put my life on the line.
And what did I get?
You were gonna boot me
into smaller quarters
because I couldn't
afford anything better?
The only way I got out of that
was to rejoin the Psi-Corps
and you don't even wanna
know the deal
I had to make
to pull that one off.
- Lyta--
- I'm not finished.
After all that,
you had the nerve
to ask me
to risk my life a second time
during the civil war back home.
And stupid me, I did it.
And what did I get out of that?
zip, zilch.
I got no life,
no hope, no prospects.
Now, along comes Byron.
And for the first time in a long
while, I feel like someone
actually cares about
what happens to me.
I care what happens
to you, Lyta.
Yeah, well, maybe that's true.
But talk is cheap, Zack.
Byron is putting
his life on the line
to create something
for his people.
And I'm one of 'em.
He's given us back
a sense of dignity..
...and community.
I'm proud of that
and I'm proud of him.
If you can't handle
that, I'm sorry
but there's nothing
I can do about it.
Look..
...if you could just
give me five minutes--
Zack..
...if Byron asked me
to follow him into hell..
...I'd do it gladly
with a smile on my face.
Because I believe in him.
What could you possibly
say in five minutes
that would change that?
[instrumental music]
Here they come again.
Look just like crows,
don't they? All in black.
What happened? Somebody die?
Hey, I'm talking to you.
Obviously, but I was
not talking to you.
We were just passing through
and wish to continue.
Well, I don't wish
you to continue.
Who the hell do you think
you're talking to?
You think you're
a big shot, don't you?
All of you damn teeps,
you come down here
parade around like
you're in charge of the place.
Get free room and board and
you think you're better than us?
The president has
allowed us to stay here.
Yeah? Big fragging deal.
I been here two years
and let me tell you,
it ain't no honor.
It's a joke, and so are you.
Fine. You've had your say.
I'd like to pass now.
I'd like to kick your ass.
What do you think of that?
- It's okay. Let him come.
- No.
Hit me.
- What?
- I said, hit me!
[intense music]
Again.
[sighs]
Was one the same as three?
Was three the same
as one and two?
What?
Was there any difference
between one, two and three?
And what would you expect to get
out of four, five and six
that you did not get
out of one, two and three?
Your anger has
nothing to do with me.
What will satisfy your anger
will never come from me
or anyone else here.
I'm afraid you must
look for it elsewhere.
[instrumental music]
Nothing! It was nothing.
Must have been
some kind of teep trick.
Come on!
I appreciate you
seeing me, ambassador.
I did nothing
but relay your request
to the Grand Council of Elders.
The Ssh-Ba himself
approved your request.
The Ssh-Ba?
Doesn't that translate
to "oldest of the old?"
Yes, we were geritocracy
ruled by the oldest
of our people
who are wise enough
to guide us properly.
We..
Ah, there you are.
Doctor, this is
my attaché, Kirrin.
My apologies for being late.
Forgiven. Please sit.
The doctor was just explaining
what he needs from us.
Well, it-it-it's nothing major.
At least at this stage.
We would like access
to your genetic records
'and medical files
so that we could better'
understand your people
and any dangers
that might come to us
or to you from other species.
Until now, we have kept
our medical information
to ourselves
to prevent others
from using it against us.
We've never given it
to an outsider.
I appreciate that.
You have my personal guarantee
that nothing
of a compromising nature
will ever be released.
As a doctor, I'm bound
by an oath of confidentiality.
So whatever you give me
will be considered
privileged information.
And if you are
captured by another
and given the choice
of betraying us or dying
which would you choose?
- Kirrin!
- My apologies.
But it is a fair question.
He is asking us to risk
our lives on his promise.
Is it wrong to ask
the same of him?
All the information
will be kept in one file.
Triple encoded
and there are no copies.
No one else has the pass code.
If anyone enters
the wrong code, just once
the program will delete itself.
But if someone placed
a gun to your head
and told you
to give me the pass code
would you die for us?
You aren't asking anything that
I haven't already considered
and the answer is yes.
I would die before
I allow my work
to be used
in biogenetic warfare.
Anything else, Kirrin?
No. Thank you, doctor.
I will arrange to have as many
of our medical files as possible
transferred to your system.
The material should be there
by the time
you get back to Medlab.
Thank you, ambassador.
Kirrin.
This is a mistake.
The Elders have spoken.
It is not your place
to question them or me.
This information is required
if we are to remain
part of the alliance.
And our people need that edge
if we are to compete.
But what if he finds out?
If it is the will of Oshi-Ta..
...then we must accept it.
[instrumental music]
And if he betrays us..
...then he will die.
Oh, God.
- 'Are you alright?'
- Fine.
Yeah, you look fine.
Why isn't somebody
taking care of you?
Because they understand
at times like this
I prefer not to be disturbed.
Just a minute.
(Lyta)
'Now, I heard about
what happened.'
There were as many of you
as there were of them.
So why did you let them
do that to you?
Because then there
would have been
seven of our people hurt
instead of just one.
Violence is not our way, Lyta.
Yeah, well..
...at times like this,
it is mine.
No.
Violence is their way.
The way of the mundanes
who would use us, control us
and in the end, kill us
because they're afraid of us.
The Psi-Corps has
adopted their ways.
Treating us
as the mundanes treat them
because they're afraid
of themselves..
...and because they don't
know any other way.
They don't understand.
Understand what?
No tyranny has
ever really lasted.
No government based
on violence has endured.
Sooner or later, they all fall.
We're here to build
a new life for ourselves.
A home among the stars.
Would you build
a home on a foundation
you knew would not last?
No, of course not.
Then why should we
use the same tools
of violence and fear
that they use?
But when they do this
doesn't it, doesn't it
make you mad?
I mean, don't you wanna
strike back? Cou.. Ju-ju..
What? What's so funny?
Do you know what you are?
What?
A BCFMO.
A brightly colored
fast moving object.
You don't just walk into a room.
You blaze in and blaze out
again like a comet.
There's so much more to you
than meets the eye.
If you only knew.
- Stop smiling.
- Then go away.
If you're here, I'm afraid
I can't help myself.
Oh.
What am I gonna do with you?
I sometimes wonder
the same thing about you.
Well, when you
figure it out, let me know.
You first.
[instrumental music]
I'll, uh..
...I'll go to see Dr. Franklin
and get something
for your bruises.
Should make them
go away by tomorrow.
They're already gone.
I can still see them.
Only on the outside.
Well, I should go.
You leave us every night. Why?
I-I don't feel like
I belong here.
Not yet anyway.
Yes, you do.
Stay with us tonight.
No, I-I can't, Byron.
I-I want to, but..
[music continues]
Lyta does not yet feel
she truly belongs among us.
What do you say?
[music continues]
[door opens]
These are the last of
the files you wanted, doctor.
Thank you. Just-just, uh,
set them down right there.
Thank you very much.
Kirrin?
There's something I don't
understand about these records.
Now, your civilization
has been around for 7000 years.
But-but these files on your
evolution and medical history
only go back about 800 years.
Yes?
Well, it would be helpful
if I had something
a little more comprehensive.
All the conclusions and results
of the previous years are there.
Are they not?
Yes, but it's important
to know the historical process
that led to those conclusions.
- Now, if I could just--
- I'm sorry, doctor.
Those are all
the files I was given.
You will have to make do
with what you have.
[instrumental music]
Computer, check Hyach
historical archives.
How far back do we have records
of their society their culture,
their government?
(female automated announcer)
'Checking, records date back'
'between 750 years
and 820 years.'
That's it?
There is no recorded
history of the Hyach
before about 800 years?
'Confirmed.'
They're hiding something.
But what?
More important, why?
[music continues]
You-you go on ahead.
I'll-I'll catch up.
What the hell are you
doing down here, freak?
I was ju-I was ju..
"I was ju.."
He was ju-he was ju..
Hey, you brought lunch.
Let me see.
Let me see!
[dramatic music]
'What are you
looking at, freak?'
I said, what are you loo..
'Oh, look out!'
Ow!
You think that's funny,
huh, freak?
I'll show you what's funny.
- Take it easy. Easy.
- Get on! I'm gonna do it!
[grunting]
(Stephen)
'Alright, people,
let's move now, let's move.'
'Fifty CCs of hydromorphozine.'
'IV, stat.'
'Let's get the scanners
on him quick!'
'Let's move, people.
Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!'
Bring it on in!
(male #1)
'Breathing is
erratic. Analyzing.'
- How is he?
- Not good.
- Oh.
- But I think he'll live.
Why aren't you working on him?
I've got my best trauma team
handling his case.
Alright? If they
can't handle it, nobody can.
Now, do you know what happened?
Yes, he was attacked
by one of you
for the crime of being
who he is and what he is.
Alright, did you get
a description of who did this?
No, but I believe
we know who was responsible.
Well, we're gonna need more
than that to go after him.
My people won't.
That troubles me.
They're not gonna do
anything stupid now, are they?
Well, not if
Byron can stop them.
Well, if they're so upset,
where are they?
They're here.
(Stephen)
'Has his breathing improved?'
(male #1)
'Slightly, but it's
still erratic.'
(female #1)
'Uh, 20 CCs of diodram.'
(Stephen)
'Wait a minute.'
'There's a flutter
on the brain scan.'
(Byron)
'Doctor!'
Take good care of him.
He's a very special case.
(male #1)
'He's now responsive.'
(Stephen)
'Good. Just watch him.
He may go into shock.'
- 'What the hell?'
- 'Watch it!'
As I said,
a very special case.
Come on. We have to hurry.
[grunting]
No!
'Aah. No. No more.'
'I didn't do anything!'
[screaming]
Make it stop!
[grunting]
I didn't do anything!
[screaming]
'Make it stop.
Make it stop!'
It's me.
It's me!
Be still. Let it go.
Do it for me.
Byron.
Freeze!
- Hold it right there.
- Zack, stop.
Let him go. Listen to me.
He didn't do anything.
Yeah? Doesn't look
that way to me.
It's alright, Lyta.
It's alright.
Alright. Get him out of here.
Get a med team down here, stat.
Computer..
...anything new on the search
for Hyach records?
'Negative results on search.'
[sighs]
Alright. Alright.
Let's-let's
try this another way.
Uh..
...search all available files
for any records
from any of the other races.
Some of them
have been in contact
with the Hyach for a long time.
Maybe they've got
something we don't.
'Stand by.'
[beeping]
- 'Yeah?'
- I-I need to see my people.
- Mr. Alan promised--
- 'First thing in the morning.'
This can't wait. I need
to talk to them, calm them down.
If I don't speak to them
something terribly wrong
is going to happen.
(male #2)
'Yeah, yeah. Whatever.'
[beeps]
[grunting]
[instrumental music]
[computer beeps]
[automated message]
'Records found.'
Hmm. Oh.
Alrighty.
Let's see what we got here.
[speaking in foreign language]
Initiate translation program.
[computer beeping]
Picked up another
shipment of Kiligrain
for dark moon ceremony.
We had a sighting of Hyach-Doh.
'Very rare.'
'Came into our encampment
and asked to come with us.'
'Per our contract, we refused'
'and notified those
in charge of collection.'
'Expect to arrive
in homeland in 24--'
Stop!
We had a sighting of Hyach-Doh.
Very rare.
'Came into our encampment
and asked to come with us.'
'Per our contract, we refused'
'and notified those
in charge of collection.'
[beeps]
Computer, is there any
reference to Hyach-Doh
in any of the current
Hyach literature?
(female automated announcer)
'Negative.'
Alright, check alien records.
Cross reference with Hyach-Doh.
Include all variant spellings.
Give me a hard copy readout.
'Stand by.'
[instrumental music]
Do as I tell you or die.
Stop!
Far enough.
Let me see.
(Stephen)
I can save you time, Kirrin.
I know your secret.
The Hyach-Doh, they're
all dead, aren't they?
'It was a case
of parallel evolution.'
Two sentient races
developed on your world.
The other race splitting off
from the main line
about a million years ago.
Like the Neanderthal
and Cro-Magnon on Earth.
Except in your case..
...they didn't die out.
Yes.
At first, we competed
for living space.
Resources.
Then we learned
to live together..
...for a time.
And all the while
there was intermarrying between
the two sides, wasn't there?
It was a great scandal.
But it continued
throughout our history.
Until 1200
of your years ago.
Religious laws were passed
that made it immoral
for one line
to marry into the other.
Then immoral became illegal.
Then illegal,
punishable by death.
And then..
And then it just became
more efficient for you
to wipe out the entire race.
It took us centuries.
They were hunted down
in every corner of our world.
There were bounties
placed on their heads.
They were forbidden
to leave our homeland.
They tried to slip away.
But any captain found
transporting them
was subject
to arrest and execution.
Forty million of them.
The funeral pyres
burned night and day.
It was a long time ago.
We are not responsible.
But we pay the price, Kirrin.
What price?
Well, you must've known
I'd stumble onto this.
What price?
Give him back his papers.
Do as I say.
Take a look at the numbers
for our population growth.
No. They're not growing.
They're shrinking.
The birth rate
is down nearly 20%.
Looks like it's been
decreasing steadily
for centuries, but..
Something in your biological
makeup is breaking down.
Yes.
You needed
the Hyach-Doh, didn't you?
something in their DNA
to keep your species growing
through interbreeding.
- Without it--
- We are dying.
We killed the Hyach-Doh
and in so doing,
we killed ourselves.
It took us a long time
to discover the cause
but now, there is nowhere to go.
We are a dying people.
Unless you help us.
No.
You hold us responsible
for those who were killed.
Yes.
Even though we ourselves
were not yet born?
You helped hide the truth
about what happened
by revising your history.
Cutting out the parts
you didn't like.
Now, as far as I'm concerned
that makes you
an accomplice after the fact.
It's our shame.
We won't have it exposed.
Well, that's your choice.
But what it means is,
morally, I can't help you.
Besides, something
as massive as this
it's beyond my capabilities.
It would take the resources
of several league worlds
to conduct studies
on your biology.
Find out what was lost.
Develop a means of restoring it
on a planetary basis.
It's too big of a job
to be finished in my lifetime.
But we could get started.
It may not work.
But if you keep this a secret
nothing will be done.
And your people, your race,
will eventually die out.
Let him go.
But, Tal..
It is the decision
of the Elders.
They could not
reveal our shame to others.
But now that another
has discovered our truth
we may as well acknowledge it.
It is too high
a price to pay
to do otherwise.
[instrumental music]
Perhaps..
...someday..
...you may forgive us
for what our ancestors did.
I can't forgive you.
It's not my place
to speak for the dead.
The only forgiveness can come
from the Hyach-Doh.
Too bad they're all dead.
The guy that got attacked
woke up about an hour ago.
Didn't remember
who did it to him.
Only thing
he does seem to remember
is you tried to help him.
His story confirms
what you told us.
- Then I can go now.
- You can go.
Thing is, the guy
worked for Carl Townsend.
Real pain in
the ass in down below.
First class thug.
My guys found Carl's body
about an hour ago.
Not a pretty sight.
No. I would imagine not.
Word is, he and the other guy
who got attacked
hassled your bunch
the other day.
Maybe even attacked
one of your guys.
Now one's in serious condition.
The other's dead.
Don't suppose you know
anything about that.
How would I? I've been
in here the whole time.
One thing.
I suspect if you'd not
kept me locked up here all day
there might be one less
dead body in your morgue.
Please, try and remember
that next time.
[instrumental music]
Are you sure
you're gonna be alright?
No.
I worked so hard
to teach them, Lyta.
I wanted so much
for them to understand.
[sighs]
And yet, they continue.
They killed that man, Lyta.
Not all of them.
I don't know
which ones, but I..
...I could feel it
when it happened.
Through 14 decks..
...layers of steel
and wire and doors
I could feel it!
And I was ashamed.
It's not their fault.
I should have taught
them better somehow.
He was a violent,
dangerous man.
Now, I-I can't
condone what they did
but I understand it.
You did everything you could.
Then I must learn to do more.
That's where you're wrong.
You have done more
for these people
than you will ever understand.
And for me.
I wish I could believe that.
So do I.
Because it's true.
Five lifetimes ago,
you said I was your willow.
Offering you shade..
...and rest.
Yes.
Then rest in me.
Even if it's only
for a little while.
[instrumental music]
There's something
you should know before we..
I haven't been
with anyone since..
Byron, the Vorlons changed me.
More than you could
possibly know.
I-I don't know what it'll do
once you get past my barriers
and I get past yours.
It could burn you.
Then let it burn.
[music continues]
(Lyta)
I can feel them.
[music continues]
- It was the Vorlons.
- Yes.
They created telepaths
on a hundred worlds.
Interfered with their
genetic development.
Took people
from their home worlds
and adjusted them over
the course of the centuries.
Yes.
Because they needed telepaths in
their war against the Shadows.
Needed us as cannon fodder.
Yes.
We would be normal.
We would have lives.
We would be able
to walk and live
and work among normals
without fear of persecution
if the Vorlons
had not interfered
with our normal development.
We were made for their benefit.
To save them.
We were told that our abilities
were our gift and our curse.
And that we were somehow
responsible for it.
But we're not.
We're not.
The Vorlons are gone, Byron.
There's no one left
to settle the score.
No, but the other races
are still here.
We were made telepathic
to serve their cause.
Save their worlds.
Now, they have
to recognize that.
They have to understand that
they are responsible for us.
For our condition.
They have
to make it right, Lyta.
We'll force them
to make it right.
How?
By giving us
a homeland of our own.
We don't fit here
because we're different.
Because we were made different.
They owe us a place where
we can be among our own kind.
We'll ask to speak
to the Alliance.
Put our case before them.
See if they can be persuaded
to do the right thing.
And if they can't?
[instrumental music]
Then we'll make sure
they have no other choice.
[theme music]